In this Diablo 2 resurrected video, we're going to be talking about classes and how
each of them play.
The game features 7 different classes and if you're still trying to figure out what
to play, then this video is for you.
The first thing that you need to do when you start the game is decide which class you'll
be playing.
If you're a newcomer, I strongly recommend that you pick a class based on your liking
and not based on a build guide.
The reason for this is that most builds heavily rely on powerful items that you will likely
not be able to get for at least the first 50 to 100 hours.
This means you'll end up struggling as you progress through the game resulting in a
frustrating experience.
Instead, you should start playing a class that is appealing to you and learn about the game
as you progress through the different acts and difficulties.
This will give you a better grasp of the mechanics allowing you to define your own playstyle,
at which point you'll be better suited to search for a build and to vote to it.
Also remember that you'll get one free respect for completing the very first quest of the
game, Den of Evil, so if you're not enjoying your experience, you might want to use this
respect and try a different option or skill tree.
With the right build, all classes become very strong during endgame, but each of them has
a very unique playstyle.
We'll be publishing individual videos and builds for each class near release, but I
wanted to give you a basic overview of each of them in case you're still in the fence
regarding which to choose.
The source risk is one of the most popular classes of Diablo 2 because of her high damage
output and relatively easy mechanics.
She can use fire, ice, and lightning spells and has access to one of the best abilities
in the game called Teleport, which allows you to quickly move through the map or escape
from danger.
She has a very low health pool which means that you'll need to keep away from enemies
to stay alive.
Another downside of the source risk is that she can struggle with some elemental immune
enemies as you'll often devote to a single element type.
The source risk skill tree is divided between three different elemental affinities, cold,
fire, and lightning spells.
Most spells of the cold spell tree will slow down your enemies or freeze them providing
you much better control of the battlefield.
The individual damage of most spells is not that impressive, but it is compensated for
by their AoE, providing the ability to kill many enemies at the same time.
The fire spell tree has very high damage to both groups and individual targets.
While the destructive force of this tree is unparalleled, it relies on killing your enemies
quickly as the only means of protecting yourself.
Some fire spells leave fire patches on the ground that deal damage over time and are
best used in closed spaces.
Winding spells are unique as they have a huge gap between their min and max damage meaning
that you might one-shot an enemy on the first strike or do almost no damage at all after
several casts.
This is often compensated for by investing in cast speed rather than damage as quickly
spamming lightning spells will increase the chances of you casting a high damage version.
Additionally, static field and teleport are two spells that can be found in this tree
but are used by every source risk build because of their convenience.
While playing the source risk rely on powerful spells to defeat your enemies from a safe
location.
Most of her spells deal very high damage on their own, which makes her less reliant on
gear than all other classes.
Using her teleport skill, the source risk can quickly reach your desired destination
and longer to complete runs much faster than other characters during an early game.
This is very important in game progression and the main reason why she is picked by newcomers
and during ladder resets.
Here are some examples of source risk builds.
The Amazon uses projectile weapons to deal massive damage to enemies from a safe distance.
She has an average health pool and her passive skills provide her with a chance to avoid
damage both while running or attacking enemies.
The Amazon skill tree is divided between bow and crossbow skills, passive and magical
skills and javelin and spear skills.
It's highly advisable to focus on either the bow and crossbow tree or the javelin and
spear tree and then a side points into passive and magical skills as required.
Most people offer bows when selecting the bow and crossbow skill tree because of their
increased attack speed and overall better unique bows.
This tree is very versatile and excels at dealing with multiple enemies at the same
time providing you with many types of elemental attacks.
While the passive and magic skill tree doesn't have a play style on its own, it greatly
increases both your offensive and defensive capabilities by providing passive bonuses.
On top of that, the Valkyrie skill unlocked at level 30 is a better version of the mercenary
which you can freely cast on the battlefield.
Most people who opt for the javelin and spear skill tree will opt to go for javelins instead
of spears because of their insane damage output and the ability to attack from a distance
when needed.
Javelin and amazon deals some of the highest damage between all classes but their throw
speed is low so you'll need to make each shot count.
Additionally, the tree mostly focuses on lightning and poison attacks which limits your engagement
options.
While playing the amazon, you'll kite enemies by taking a couple of shots running away
and then repeating this sequence.
Here are a couple examples of possible amazon builds.
Paladins use defensive and offensive auras to buff both themselves and allies on the
battlefield.
They are very tanky due to their holy shield ability and defensive auras, but without
enough gear they can fall behind and damage compared to other classes.
It's worth mentioning that this downside is only noticeable during early gameplay as
fully equipped paladins are one of the highest DPS classes in the game.
The paladin skill tree is divided into combat skills, defensive auras and offensive auras.
Both defensive and offensive auras can only be equipped on the secondary skill slot so
you'll need to swap between them and battle according to the situation.
Defense skills are designed to deal damage to enemies.
Most paladin builds are created around one particular combat skill and then supported
by different auras.
The only exception here is holy shield which is used by most builds and provides a buff
to your shield greatly increasing your defensive capabilities.
Defensive auras can greatly increase your survival chances by for example increasing
your elemental resistances or defensive values.
Some of them can also be used as utility auras increasing movement speed or the mana
recovery rate of you or your group.
Defensive auras increase your offensive capabilities by either buffing your party
members, debuffing enemies or by dealing direct damage.
The offensive auras that you use highly depend on the type of combat skill that you are currently
using.
While playing paladin you'll focus on either the blessed hammer skill tree or in melee combat
for your build.
Paladins are heavily reliant on their equipment to increase their damage but their survivability
is very high thanks to your defensive auras.
During early gameplay it might take you longer than other classes to clear each room but
you'll become more powerful as you acquire more gear.
Here are some examples of paladin builds.
The necromancer can summon minions to fight alongside him against the forces of evil.
He can use curses to debilitate enemies turning the tide of battle in his favor and has access
to ranged spells to attack on his own.
The necromancer skill tree is divided between summoning spells, poison and bone spells and
curses.
The summoning skill tree focuses on summoning allies that fight for you.
These can be raised from corpses and the total amount that you can control at the same
time will increase with each point assigned.
Additionally you can increase their power by spending points in skeletal mastery.
Gollums are also a different type of summon that you can only have one active of any type
at the same time.
The cursed skill tree allows you to aid your forces by throwing curses into your enemies.
Curses are thrown into an area and apply massive debuffs such as reducing armor or dealing
damaged enemies in the AOE.
The poison and bone spell skill tree is mainly composed of direct spells to deal damage on
your own.
It's important to remember that you'll need corpses to create your army so you'll want
to be strong enough to take out some enemies to start raising your army.
While playing the necromancer you'll command an army of skeletons and monsters that perform
the hack and slash for you.
While your forces fight on the vanguard you'll curse your enemies to weaken them and explode
their corpses to deal area damage.
It's important to notice that playing as a necromancer might be frustrating at times,
especially when you die, as you require some preparation.
You'll need corpses to raise your army and killing enemies on your own might be difficult
if you assigned all points into summoning skills.
Here are a couple examples of necromancer builds.
Barbarians are very tanky and fight enemies face to face.
They have access to shouts which act as buffs that affect both themselves and party members,
greatly increasing both defensive and offensive capabilities for long periods of time.
Barbarians are the only class that can wield two weapons at the same time with the exception
of the assassin using Kataras, and their combat masteries allow them to increase the
affinity with every type of weapon, opening up the possibility to numerous and very distinct
builds for both PvP and PvE.
The barbarian skill tree is divided between combat skills, combat masteries and war cries.
Combat skills are mainly active attack skills, similar to paladins most barbarian builds
are created around a combat skill.
Most combat skills are designed to deal damage to a single enemy so most barbarians rely
on the whirlwind ability to attack multiple enemies at once.
Combat masteries are all passive effects.
There is a skill mastery for each type of weapon, greatly increasing their effectiveness.
There are also some passive defensive skills that increase your defense and speed.
War cries can be used to provide a buff to all members of the party for a long period
of time.
Multiple shouts can be active at the same time, allowing the barbarian to greatly increase
everyone's defense and attack values.
While playing the barbarian, you'll run across the battlefield dealing very high damage to
individual targets.
The barbarian is the most item-dependent class in the game, and for the same reason,
it is also considered the hardest class to start with in the game.
Here are some good examples of barbarian builds.
Druids use the power of nature to fight against the forces of evil.
They are sort of jack-of-all-trades combining the ability to summon companions, transform
into beasts to fight up close, and use magical abilities to fight from a safe distance.
While they have access to a wide range of abilities, you'll need to focus on a specific
category to effectively pass through the end game.
The druid skill tree is divided between elemental skills, shape-shifting skills, and summoning
skills.
The elemental skill tree is mostly consisted of spells that deal direct damage to enemies.
Most of these spells can deal cold and fire damage, but some like tornado deal physical
damage as well.
Shape-shifting skills allow the druid to transform into either a werewolf or a werebear.
Most abilities in this tree can only be used while the druid is transformed, so it's
best to focus on a single transformation.
Similar to the necromancer, the summoning skills a druid possesses allow them to summon
allies to fight for him.
Different summons can be active at the same time, and some of them provide passive abilities
for all party members.
When playing with the druid, your gameplay experience will greatly depend on the build
you went for.
Here are some examples of druid builds.
These use martial arts and traps to defeat her enemies.
Traps can be laid on the ground and will periodically attack enemies within range while
martial arts allow her to perform very quick attacks.
The assassin skill tree is divided between martial arts, traps, and shadow discipline
skills.
Martial arts skills are divided into charge up skills which accumulate effects and damage
on each successful hit, and finishing moves which release those charges and effects allowing
you to create a devastating combo.
Sharp skills can be laid on the ground and will periodically attack enemies when they
are in range.
Most traps deal elemental damage, and their attack pattern is unique to each of them.
The shadow discipline tree combines passive and active buffs to greatly enhance both
your defensive and offensive capabilities.
Additionally, the shadow summon can be of great help to distract enemies and to increase
your spell spam.
While martial arts sound great on paper, they do not perform that well on the battlefield,
so you'll most likely end up using traps and shadow discipline skills to enhance yourself.
There are two main types of traps being fire traps and lightning traps.
Fire traps are better at dealing with groups of enemies because of their V-shaped pattern,
while lightning traps deal higher damage in a straight line.
Here are some examples of assassin builds.
I hope this video has helped you select a class and just remember there is really no
wrong choice here, and I encourage you to make multiple characters with many different
classes so you can experience them all.
Stay tuned for our build guides for Diablo 2 resurrected as we publish many different
builds for this iconic game, and be sure to check out the Diablo 2 resurrected wiki
if you need a reference for rune words, other information, or more build ideas.
